---
title: Stopping a Project
teaser: It’s a pretty good reason not to publish something if you’re not happy with the quality. That’s why we don’t plan to release matter.md.
author: Hans Pagel
slug: stopping-a-project
published_at: 2020-10-09
---

I always thought it’s a lousy reason not to publish something because you’re unhappy with the quality. From our experience with other projects (Hello Glyphfinder Windows version!), I learned: It’s a pretty good reason.

## People complain, and that’s fine.
Things that don’t have a quality lead to more work. People complain on Twitter, send (angry) support emails, write negative blog articles, ask for missing features, and report strange bugs.

Which is fine, as long as we still believe in the idea and think putting more time into it will improve it. But it is a distraction for products we can’t fix in a reasonable amount of time.

## What we did wrong.
A few months ago, we announced to work on a new macOS app called [matter.md](https://matter.md). It’s a Markdown text editor with a ton of language checks for the things you write. The tool is supposed to make you a fantastic writer, and we had big plans for it. The whole app has two huge parts that we needed to get right:

**For the actual text editing part**, we made the mistake of working with the wrong technology (CodeMirror vs. ProseMirror). That led to really, really bad performance for longer documents. Fixing that would mean to completely rewrite the editing part, plus going away from Markdown.

**The language checks are not good at all.** We saw that as the most significant risk from the beginning but hoped to get it fixed somehow. It turned out it’s just not feasible. It’s complex to improve those checks, and you need to know a lot about the English language (Hint: We don’t). And even then, the technology we used doesn’t read the context; it just scans for words. It’s like a ton of bad word lists, which is sufficient for many use
cases, but not for an editor that is supposed to improve your writing.

## The lesson we have learned.
It seemed to be a great shortcut to build apps on top of the work of others. In this case, the otherwise excellent retext plugin system. It’s not, or not like we did it.

## Stay positive.
The good thing: I don’t see us throwing this project away, but “on hold” is the best option for now.

I’m pretty sure we’re building something different text related. Maybe we can use parts of matter.md for whatever that is (the user interface had many fans). If not, we can still release it anytime (paid or free), nothing to lose here.

If you have - like I do - the feeling in your gut that not releasing things like that is a mistake, read about the psychological reasons here: [Sunk cost on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunk_cost).

That said: If you believe in your damn thing, release it! Even if it’s crappy. You can do it! But don’t feel ashamed not to release something, it’s okay too.